+++
title = "Core member interview: Alessandro Baffa"
date = "2018-08-20"
banner = "img/news/Alessandro.jpg"
+++

## 1. How did you first hear of “Mindfulness”?
   I  first  heard  about  Mindfulness  some  years  ago  on  the  social  networks,  following  a  French entrepreneur based in Silicon Valley, Loic Le Meur.    He was talking a lot about it and how much this practice was spreading not only in the startups ecosystem, but also among a lot of very well known CEOsacross the globe. I was so impressed when I discovered that there also are meditation sessions  organized  at  the  World  Economic  Forum,  every  year.  So,  since  then  Mindfulness  and meditation became rapidly a recurrent topic in my news feeds and I read more and more about it.
## 2. What motivated you to try mindfulness?
   One day Loic  Le Meur mentioned a book called “Search Inside Yourself”, written by a software engineer at Google. Being a software engineer myself, I was interested to know more about how Mindfulness could be useful for our profiles. I was actually already trying to find ways to improve my  focus  and  productivity,  so  this  book  came  up  in  the  perfect  moment  for  me  and  I  started following the guidelines in the book.
## 3. How did you start to integrate Mindfulness into your life and workplace?
   I am not disciplined enough to start such activities alone, I needed something that could push me to  start  every  day.  So,  along  with  the  book,  I  also  started  to  use  a  mobile  application  called Headspace. There are a lot of similar mobile apps and they basically give you some audio guidelines to  follow  during  your  meditation  sessions.  I  practiced  every  morning  for  10  to  15  minutes  for several months until I felt I was good enough to go on my own without additional help. I’d never donemeditation sessions at the workplace, at least before joining Rakuten, and so I got used to takingfew minutes during the day to focus on my breathing and feelings at that moment. Atmy desk. I do this when I feel particularly stressed. I don’t even close my eyes, I just look at a fixed point in front of me trying to clear my mind from all the thoughts and to give a label to the emotions I realize to feel at that moment. I do this for 3-4 minutes and it helps so much.
## 4. What have been the benefits of Mindfulness for you?
   I am definitely more focused. Not only at work, but also in everything I do in my life. I find the exercise  of  the  breath  very  similar  to  the  dynamic  of  when  you  lose  attention:  when  you  face  a difficulty within your task, your mind tends to escape from it and you end up doing something else without even realizing it. As a programmer, it’s a recurrent issue and the fact that we are right in front of a computer, with the vastness of the Internet just one click away, it’s not good at all. Meditation helps a lot in this. Another benefit I realized  to  have acquired, surelyat a very beginner level,  is the control of my feelings. When we face a problemitis very common to be completely overwhelmed by a particular emotion such as anger, anxiety or stress. It’s like a wave, it grows until a point where there’s nothing you  cando.  In  that  status  of  mind  we  tend  to  lose  control  and,  more  importantly,  amplify  the problem that caused it.  After having practiced mindfulness,  even for  a relatively short period  of time, I realize that now I can feel when this wave is coming up and I manage, more or less, to make it go away. Sometimes more successfully than others, of course, but I surely manage to minimize the  impact  of  this  wave  of  emotions  and  control  it.  As  a  programmer,  this  wave  of  emotions happens every time mycode is not compiling or some tests are not working. So, pretty often.This has a huge benefit not only on my productivity, but also in the relationship with other people. It increases a lot your empathy, you learn not to judge and to listen more carefully.
## 5. What advicewould you give to people who are new to the concept of Mindfulness?
   Keep practicing, even when you do not see results in the short term. It was revealing to me when I understood (thanks to the book) that mindfulness was not a practice for only an elite of people in the world with plenty of free time and higher mind capabilities. Everybody can learn it and there are many different levels, absolutely achievable, that can totally change your life. At the beginning you will find your mind absolutely not capable to focus for few seconds, and you will feel bad or not good enough. Keep this in mind: we all passed through that step. Keep practice and, even with 10 minutes a day, you will achieve a mindfulness level that is good for you.
